unbound/README.md, before:

# unbound

## Description

Unbound is designed as a set of modular components, so that also DNSSEC (secure
DNS) validation and stub-resolvers (that do not run as a server, but are linked
into an application) are easily possible.

The root name server information is updated on a regular basis. Source:
https://www.internic.net/domain/named.root

For more information on the usage and available configuration options,
consult the following sections.

## Usage

### Install

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'install'
```

### Enable

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'enable'
    unbound_do_not_query_localhost: False
    unbound_local_zone:
      - {zone: '10.in-addr.arpa.', type: 'nodefault', comment: 'Enable reverse lookup for 10.0.0.0/8'}
    unbound_stub_zone:
     - {name: 'example.com', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.com'}
     - {name: 'example.org', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.org'}
```

### Disable

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'disable'
    unbound_do_not_query_localhost: False
    unbound_local_zone:
      - {zone: '10.in-addr.arpa.', type: 'nodefault', comment: 'Enable reverse lookup for 10.0.0.0/8'}
    unbound_stub_zone:
     - {name: 'example.com', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.com'}
     - {name: 'example.org', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.org'}
```

### Remove

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'remove'
```

### Inactive

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'inactive'
```

## Parameters

### Role

`unbound_state`

    Description: Control the state of the role.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : String
    Default    : 'enable'
    Options    :
      Install : 'true' | 'yes' | 'install'
      Enable  : 'start' | 'on' | 'enable'
      Disable : 'stop' | 'off' | 'disable'
      Remove  : 'false' | 'no' | 'remove'
      Inactive: 'quiesce' | 'inactive'

`unbound_access_control`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_access_control' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : [{address: '127.0.0.1', action: 'allow', comment: 'IP4 localhost'},
                  {address: '0.0.0.0/0', action: 'refuse', comment: 'IP4 any'},
                  {address: '::1', action: 'allow', comment: 'IP6 localhost'},
                  {address: '::0/0', action: 'refuse', comment: 'IP6 any'}]
    Options    :
      Examples: [{address: '127.0.0.1', action: 'allow', comment: 'IP4 localhost'},
                 {address: '0.0.0.0/0', action: 'refuse', comment: 'IP4 any'},
                 {address: '192.168.0.0/16', action: 'allow', comment: 'Private address space (RFC1918)'},
                 {address: '172.16.0.0/12', action: 'allow', comment: 'Private address space (RFC1918)'},
                 {address: '10.0.0.0/8', action: 'allow', comment: 'Private address space (RFC1918)'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_control_enable`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_control_enable' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_default_port`

    Description: Set the 'unbound_default_port' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Integer
    Default    : 53
    Options    :
      Examples: 53 | 5300

`unbound_do_not_query_localhost`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_do_not_query_localhost' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_algo_downgrade`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_algo_downgrade' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_below_nxdomain`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_below_nxdomain' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_dnssec_stripped`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_dnssec_stripped' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_glue`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_glue' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_large_queries`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_large_queries' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_referral_path`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_referral_path' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_short_bufsize`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_short_bufsize' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_hide_identity`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_hide_identity' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_hide_trustanchor`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_hide_trustanchor' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_hide_version`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_hide_version' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_identity`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_identity' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : String
    Default    : ''
    Options    :
      Examples: 'ns' | 'dns'
      None    : ''

`unbound_include`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_include' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{file: '/data/unbound-adblock/adblock.conf', comment: 'Unbound AdBlock List'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_interface`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_interface' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : [{address: '127.0.0.1', port: '53', comment: 'Localhost'}]
    Options    :
      Examples: [{address: '10.1.1.10', port: '53', comment: 'Network'}] |
                [{address: '0.0.0.0', port: '53', comment: 'Any'}] |
      None    : []

`unbound_ip4_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_ip4_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_ip6_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_ip6_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_local_data`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_local_data' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{record: '1.2.3.4 domain.tld', comment: 'domain.tld'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_local_data_ptr`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_local_data_ptr' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{record: '1.2.3.4 domain.tld', comment: 'domain.tld'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_local_zone`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_local_zone' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{zone: 'domain.tld', type: 'static', comment: 'domain.tld'}] |
                [{zone: '10.in-addr.arpa.', type: 'nodefault', comment: 'Enable reverse lookup for 10.0.0.0/8'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_monitor_monit_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_monitor_monit_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_prefer_ip6`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_prefer_ip6' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_stub_zone`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_stub_zone' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{name: 'domain.tld', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'domain.tld'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_tcp_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_tcp_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_udp_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_udp_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_version`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_version' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : String
    Default    : ''
    Options    :
      Examples: '1.6.8' | '1.7.0'
      None    : ''

## Conflicts

## Dependencies

## Requirements

### Control Node

`ansible`

    Version: >= 2.15.0

### Managed Node

`python`

    Version: >= 3.10.0

## Support

### Operating Systems

`openbsd`

    Version: 7.3
    Version: 7.4

Commit message:

unbound: - Fix 'monit' check task - Add parameter 'unbound_pf_filters' - Add parameter 'unbound_pf_state'

unbound/README.md, after:

# unbound

## Description

Unbound is designed as a set of modular components, so that also DNSSEC (secure
DNS) validation and stub-resolvers (that do not run as a server, but are linked
into an application) are easily possible.

The root name server information is updated on a regular basis. Source:
https://www.internic.net/domain/named.root

For more information on the usage and available configuration options,
consult the following sections.

## Usage

### Install

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'install'
```

### Enable

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'enable'
    unbound_do_not_query_localhost: False
    unbound_local_zone:
      - {zone: '10.in-addr.arpa.', type: 'nodefault', comment: 'Enable reverse lookup for 10.0.0.0/8'}
    unbound_stub_zone:
     - {name: 'example.com', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.com'}
     - {name: 'example.org', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.org'}
```

### Disable

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'disable'
    unbound_do_not_query_localhost: False
    unbound_local_zone:
      - {zone: '10.in-addr.arpa.', type: 'nodefault', comment: 'Enable reverse lookup for 10.0.0.0/8'}
    unbound_stub_zone:
     - {name: 'example.com', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.com'}
     - {name: 'example.org', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'example.org'}
```

### Remove

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'remove'
```

### Inactive

```
- hosts: all
  roles:
    - role: unbound
  vars:
    unbound_state: 'inactive'
```

## Parameters

### Role

`unbound_state`

    Description: Control the state of the role.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : String
    Default    : 'enable'
    Options    :
      Install : 'true' | 'yes' | 'install'
      Enable  : 'start' | 'on' | 'enable'
      Disable : 'stop' | 'off' | 'disable'
      Remove  : 'false' | 'no' | 'remove'
      Inactive: 'quiesce' | 'inactive'

`unbound_access_control`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_access_control' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : [{address: '127.0.0.1', action: 'allow', comment: 'IP4 localhost'},
                  {address: '0.0.0.0/0', action: 'refuse', comment: 'IP4 any'},
                  {address: '::1', action: 'allow', comment: 'IP6 localhost'},
                  {address: '::0/0', action: 'refuse', comment: 'IP6 any'}]
    Options    :
      Examples: [{address: '127.0.0.1', action: 'allow', comment: 'IP4 localhost'},
                 {address: '0.0.0.0/0', action: 'refuse', comment: 'IP4 any'},
                 {address: '192.168.0.0/16', action: 'allow', comment: 'Private address space (RFC1918)'},
                 {address: '172.16.0.0/12', action: 'allow', comment: 'Private address space (RFC1918)'},
                 {address: '10.0.0.0/8', action: 'allow', comment: 'Private address space (RFC1918)'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_control_enable`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_control_enable' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_default_port`

    Description: Set the 'unbound_default_port' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Integer
    Default    : 53
    Options    :
      Examples: 53 | 5300

`unbound_do_not_query_localhost`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_do_not_query_localhost' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_algo_downgrade`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_algo_downgrade' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_below_nxdomain`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_below_nxdomain' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_dnssec_stripped`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_dnssec_stripped' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_glue`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_glue' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_large_queries`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_large_queries' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_referral_path`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_referral_path' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_harden_short_bufsize`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_harden_short_bufsize' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_hide_identity`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_hide_identity' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_hide_trustanchor`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_hide_trustanchor' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_hide_version`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_hide_version' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_identity`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_identity' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : String
    Default    : ''
    Options    :
      Examples: 'ns' | 'dns'
      None    : ''

`unbound_include`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_include' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{file: '/data/unbound-adblock/adblock.conf', comment: 'Unbound AdBlock List'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_interface`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_interface' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : [{address: '127.0.0.1', port: '53', comment: 'Localhost'}]
    Options    :
      Examples: [{address: '10.1.1.10', port: '53', comment: 'Network'}] |
                [{address: '0.0.0.0', port: '53', comment: 'Any'}] |
      None    : []

`unbound_ip4_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_ip4_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_ip6_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_ip6_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_local_data`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_local_data' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{record: '1.2.3.4 domain.tld', comment: 'domain.tld'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_local_data_ptr`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_local_data_ptr' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{record: '1.2.3.4 domain.tld', comment: 'domain.tld'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_local_zone`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_local_zone' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{zone: 'domain.tld', type: 'static', comment: 'domain.tld'}] |
                [{zone: '10.in-addr.arpa.', type: 'nodefault', comment: 'Enable reverse lookup for 10.0.0.0/8'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_monitor_monit_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_monitor_monit_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_pf_filters`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_pf_filters' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : String
    Default    : |
      pass in inet proto { tcp, udp } from { 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16 } to port 53 # dns from internal private addresses
      pass in inet6 proto { tcp, udp } from fc00::/7 to port 53 # dns from unique local addresses
      pass out inet proto { tcp, udp } to any port 53 # dns to internal private addresses
      pass out inet6 proto { tcp, udp } to any port 53 # dns to unique local addresses
    Options    :
      Examples: |
      pass in inet proto { tcp, udp } from { 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12, 192.168.0.0/16 } to port 53 # dns from internal private addresses
      pass out inet proto { tcp, udp } to any port 53 # dns to internal private addresses

`unbound_pf_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_pf_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_prefer_ip6`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_prefer_ip6' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : False
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_stub_zone`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_stub_zone' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : Array/Hash
    Default    : []
    Options    :
      Examples: [{name: 'domain.tld', address: '127.0.0.1', port: '5300', comment: 'domain.tld'}]
      None    : []

`unbound_tcp_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_tcp_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_udp_state`

    Description: Control the 'unbound_udp_state' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Predetermined
    Type       : Boolean
    Default    : True
    Options    : True | False

`unbound_version`

    Description: Define the 'unbound_version' option.
    Required   : False
    Value      : Arbitrary
    Type       : String
    Default    : ''
    Options    :
      Examples: '1.6.8' | '1.7.0'
      None    : ''

## Conflicts

## Dependencies

## Requirements

### Control Node

`ansible`

    Version: >= 2.15.0

### Managed Node

`python`

    Version: >= 3.10.0

## Support

### Operating Systems

`openbsd`

    Version: 7.3
    Version: 7.4
